---
layout: single
title: Thoughts
---

>An old Cherokee told his grandson, "My boy, there is a battle between two wolves inside us all."

>"One is Evil. It is anger,jealousy,greed, resentment inferiority, lies and ego."

>"The other is Good. It is joy,peace,love,hope,humiltity,kindness,empathy and truth."

>The boy thought about it, and asked, "Grandfather, which wolf wins?".

>And the old man replied, "The one you feed"



My Grandfather passed away a couple of days ago. He suffered from dementia and alzheimer's and hadn't been able to remember who any of us were for the past few years. He was hard of hearing and most of our communication with him was through a tablet or phone, on which we would type out a question and he would answer out loud.Dementia patients tend to possess a behavioural trait called 'vocalization', where they repeatedly and constantly utter loud noises or words, and for my grandfather these vocalizations consisted of sometimes shrill and some times low-pitched grunts. As he didn't completely understand what was going on around him, most of the time the only way we could understand if he was in some pain, maybe from a toothache or a wound on his foot, was when these grunts got louder or more frequent.

He was clearly suffering and in a way, we were relieved that he passed away peacefully at home and no longer had to suffer.

My grandmother though, was devastated. Most of her life for the last few years had consisted solely of taking care of him and now that he was gone, she in her own words, "had no purpose". She kept crying on and off that entire day, saying things like, "It's all over now","I feel so empty",and "I don't know what to do with my life anymore". For the next few days, she was unable to focus on the day to day activities that always give her joy, from scrabble to singing.
We couldn't help but feel terrible for her.

Yet, deep down we all knew that these feelings were temporary and she would just need some time for her to be able to proceed with her life. My grandmother is a strong independent woman and none of us doubted that she would be back to her normal self. It might take a few weeks or even a month or so, but eventually, she would be fine.

It's our confidence that baffles me.

It's not that I think the sudden absence of her husband of 60 years is too much for her to overcome.

What confuses me that when someone else deals with immense loss or heartbreak, we believe completely in their ability to bounce back. 
Yet we are terrified of having to face any sort of loss or failure ourselves.

When a friend or loved one goes through a bad break up, messes up an interview for their dream job, or faces the death of someone who has been in their lives for so many years, we feel for them, but know that they can and will get over it.
But when we want to do something, even on a much smaller scale, like asking someone we've always fancied out, or reaching out to someone we have always respected to tell them how much they mean to us, or even voicing our sincere opinion to our boss during a meeting, we let the voices in our heads convince us that things could go horribly wrong.


And they might. Things just might go horribly wrong. And that's ok.

We might get rejected by that person and be completely embarrassed. In a day or two, we'll be fine.

The idol we have always looked up to might ignore us completely. In a couple of days, no problem.

Our boss might be infuriated by our opinion and fire us on the spot. In a while we'll find a new job. One in which our opinion is valued.


As an anxious person, I myself am terrified of doing simple things. Giving a special request to the person taking my order at a restaurant. Texting a long lost friend. Publishing a post on my blog. Just the thought of doing these things ushers in a crowd of noisy scary thoughts that give me reasons why I should not do these things.

Some days I give in. I step away and regret my decision later. On other days, I tell myself that these thoughts are just thoughts and that even if the worst ones are telling me the truth, things will be alright.


On those other days I do those scary things, and within minutes, wonder what all that hullabaloo in my head was about.

Things will be alright.





