---
layout: post
title: Ithaka
---

As you set out for Ithaka
hope your road is a long one,
full of adventure, full of discovery.
Laistrygonians, Cyclops,
angry Poseidon—don’t be afraid of them:
you’ll never find things like that on your way
as long as you keep your thoughts raised high,
as long as a rare excitement
stirs your spirit and your body.
Laistrygonians, Cyclops,
wild Poseidon—you won’t encounter them
unless you bring them along inside your soul,
unless your soul sets them up in front of you.

Hope your road is a long one.
May there be many summer mornings when,
with what pleasure, what joy,
you enter harbors you’re seeing for the first time;
may you stop at Phoenician trading stations
to buy fine things,
mother of pearl and coral, amber and ebony,
sensual perfume of every kind—
as many sensual perfumes as you can;
and may you visit many Egyptian cities
to learn and go on learning from their scholars.

Keep Ithaka always in your mind.
Arriving there is what you’re destined for.
But don’t hurry the journey at all.
Better if it lasts for years,
so you’re old by the time you reach the island,
wealthy with all you’ve gained on the way,
not expecting Ithaka to make you rich.

Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.
Without her you wouldn't have set out.
She has nothing left to give you now.

And if you find her poor, Ithaka won’t have fooled you.
Wise as you will have become, so full of experience,
you’ll have understood by then what these Ithakas mean.


By C. P. Cavafy
Translated by Edmund Keeley



I first found "Ithaka" in a Zen Pencils comic(https://www.zenpencils.com/comic/131-c-p-cavafy-ithaka/) and didn't think much of it at the time.

I understood the basic message it was trying to convey, that life is about the journey, not the reward, but to me that message was more of an interesting thought than an actual message to be considered seriously. The goal was what really mattered. Getting to that destination, reveling in all that glory, that's what life was all about. 

Several years and many books later, my perception of reality, has completely changed. Every hard fought victory, the ones I felt were the reason for my existence, indeed made me feel invincible and incredibly happy. 

Yet these were so rare.

What I experienced much more often was defeat and the pain the pain that came with it. The feelings of inadequacy. The voice in my head telling me I wasn't good enough. 


I lived every day reaching out desperately for success in the far off future, which may not have even existed. 

Time wises you up.

